Decoded text of peng_1996_antiwindup_bumpless_transfer_extract.pdf (the PDF uses a shifted font encoding; each character was shifted by +29 code points; spacer characters removed). Source: http://www-e2.ijs.si/Damir.Vrancic/Files/csm96_AbstractIntroduction.pdf, retrieved 2026-09-28.

 Anti-windup, bumpless and conditioned transfer techniques
 for PID controllers

 Youbin Peng , Damir Vranþiü  and Raymond Hanus
  




 A simple and comprehensive review of anti-windup, bumpless and conditioned transfer techniques
is given in the framework of the PID controller. It will be shown that the most suitable anti-windup
strategy  for  usual  applications  is  the  conditioning  technique,  using  the  notion  of  the  realizable
reference. The exception is the case in which the input limitations are too restrictive. In this case, the
anti-windup  method  with  a  free  parameter  tuned  to  obtain  a  compromise  between  the  incremental
algorithm and the conditioning technique is proposed. The new notion of conditioned transfer is also
introduced  and  it  will  be  shown  to  be  a  more  suitable  solution  than  bumpless  transfer.  All  the
discussions are supported by simulations.


 INTRODUCTION

 All industrial processes are submitted to constraints. For instance, a controller works in a limited
range 0-10 V or 0-20 mA, a valve cannot be opened more than 100 % and less than 0 %, and a motor
driven  actuator  has  a  limited  speed,  etc.  Such  constraints  are  usually  referred  to  as  plant  input
limitations. On the other hand, a commonly encountered control scheme is to switch from manual to
automatic mode or between different controllers. Such mode switches are usually referred to as plant
input substitutions.
 As a result of limitations and substitutions,  the  real  plant  input  is  temporarily  different  from  the
controller output. When this happens, if the controller is initially designed to operate in a linear range,
the  closed-loop  performance  will  significantly  deteriorate  with  respect  to  the  expected  linear
performance. This performance deterioration is referred to as windup. Besides windup, in the case of
substitution,  the  difference  between  the  outputs  of  different  controllers  results  in  a  big  jump  in  the
                                                     
   Department of Control Engineering, CP 165
 Free University of Brussels
 Avenue Franklin D. Roosevelt, 50
 B-1050, Brussels, Belgium
 fax: +32-2-650-26-77,
 e-mail : peng@labauto.ulb.ac.be  and  hanus@labauto.ulb.ac.be

   Department of Computer Automation and Control
 J. Stefan Institute
 Jamova 39
 61111 Ljubljana, Slovenia
 fax: +386-61-219-385,  e-mail: damir.vrancic@ijs.si,
 home page: http://www-e2.ijs.si/people/Damir.Vrancic.html

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
 The authors would like to thank Dave Pepper, Michel Kinnaert and çani Juriþiü for carefully 
 correcting the paper. They also thank the anonymous reviewers for providing many useful 
 comments.
)plant input and a poor tracking performance. This mode switching, which results in such phenomena,
is referred to as bump transfer.
 A  rational  way  to  handle  the  problem  of  windup  is  to  take  into  account,  at  the  stage  of  control
design, the input limitations. However, this approach is very involved and the resulting control law is
very complicated. Moreover, the non-linearities of the actuator are not always known a priori. A more
common  approach  in  practice  is  to  add  an  extra  feedback  compensation  at  the  stage  of  control
implementation. As this compensation aims to diminish the effect of windup, it is referred to as anti-
windup  AW .
 In the case of mode switching, the method which aims to minimize the jump at the plant input is
referred to as the bumpless transfer  BT . Yet, to minimize the jump is not always preferable, since
this may cause a relatively  poor  tracking  performance.  Thus  we  refer  to  the  method  which  will  not
only  reduce  the  jump  at  the  plant  input  but  also  keep  a  good  tracking  performance  as  conditioned
transfer  CT .  This  new  notion  will  be  shown  to  be  very  useful  later  in  this  paper.  An  anti-windup
strategy is usually implemented as a bumpless transfer technique. Indeed, an anti-windup method will
usually diminish the jump at the plant input during mode switching. However, it should be pointed out
that anti-windup does not necessarily imply bumpless transfer.
 The  topic  of  anti-windup  and  bumpless  transfer  has  been  studied  over  a  long  period  of  time  by
many  authors,  and  the  most  popular  techniques  are  described  in  [2,  4,  7,  10,  11,  16].  However,
although the concept of anti-windup and bumpless transfer is introduced in almost every basic control
textbook,  it  is  not  clearly  illustrated  and  is  sometimes  misinterpreted.  For  instance,  many  authors
think  that  anti-windup  is  aimed  at  reducing  the  output  overshoot  in  its  step  response,  or  that  anti-
windup  is  the  synonym  of  bumpless  transfer,  or  that  the  best  transfer  transition  is  to  eliminate  the
jump  at  the  plant  input.  These  thoughts  need  to  be  corrected.  Recently,  Kothare  et  al.  [10]  have
presented  a  general  framework  for  anti-windup  design  which  is  a  very  useful  guide  for  theoretical
researchers. Yet, a practical control engineer may still look for a simpler tutorial.
 Therefore,  the  objectives  of  the  present  paper  are  as  follows.  First,  we  would  like  to  illustrate
through  simulations  the  phenomenon  of  windup  and  bump  transfer.  We  will  limit  ourselves  to  the
framework of the PID controller, since it is the most common industrial controller and it frequently
experiences windup and bump transfer problems. Then, we will review the majority of existing anti-
windup methods, illustrate the improved results, and compare those methods by using the notion of
the realizable reference. Subsequently, we will investigate the case of mode switching and introduce
the new notion of conditioned transfer. It will be shown that conditioned transfer is a more suitable
solution than bumpless transfer. Finally, we will include some discussions of practical issues.
)